---
layout: post
title: Paper - Using Peircean Semiotics as the Grounding of Cognition (EN)
tags: [Study of Information, semiotics, paper, en]
---

Work published in the Proceedings of The 2021 Summit of the International Society for the Study of Information

### Using Peircean Semiotics as the Grounding of Cognition


This is a work in progress that aims to study Semiotic Theory as the grounding to support the development of new models of mind. These models can be used to construct artificial intelligent agents to deal with several tasks in the real world. The introduction presents a specific scope of cognition that takes perception and action as two connected moments bound together by signs. Some key concepts related to Peircean categories and sign typology are presented, and they are used to demonstrate their connections to the three instances of the world of ideas: World of Sense, World of Things, and World of Categories. Sensors/Actuators are considered as the unique interface with the properties of the world (signals). They are the basic artificial devices in the process of sign representation that lead semiosis toward more developed signs and, consequently, more complex ideas. Finally, artificial cognition must allow agents to act in the world, and it occurs by means of the sign interpretant, mostly by the energetic interpretant.



Camargo, Eduardo, and Ricardo Gudwin. "Using peircean semiotics as the grounding of cognition." Proceedings. Vol. 81. No. 1. MDPI, 2022.


DOI: [https://doi.org/10.3390/proceedings2022081135](https://doi.org/10.3390/proceedings2022081135)

